Add improvements. (#2558)
wso2/docs-is: en/docs/guides/access-delegation/uma.md

# User Managed Access with WSO2 Identity Server

WSO2 Identity Server (WSO2 IS) supports the [UMA 2.0](../../../references/concepts/authorization/user-managed-access) protocol, which
allows a resource owner to easily share resources with other requesting
parties. This tutorial demonstrates how you can use WSO2 IS as the
authorization server to try out UMA for a sample scenario.

## Introduction

> To demonstrate the UMA flow using WSO2 IS as the authorization server,

Reviewer: IMO, we should make this doc more generic and not use names. 

For example, we can give the instructions to create the resource owner but not make it a scenario and give the resource owner a name since this is a guide. WDYT?

Author: fixed

        Name** and click **Register**.
    3.  Expand **Inbound Authentication Configuration**, then expand
        **OAuth/OpenID Connect Configuration**, and then click
        **Configure**.
    4.  Enter
        `                         https://localhost/callback                       `
        as the value for the **Callback Url**.  
        ![register-uma-app]( ../assets/img/using-wso2-identity-server/register-uma-app.png) 
    5.  Click **Add**. -->
    
{!fragments/register-a-service-provider.md!}

### Basic OAuth/OpenID Connect configuration

{!fragments/oauth-app-config-basic.md!}

<!--- Note down the **Client ID** and **Client Secret** values. You need those
values to obtain the Protection API Access Token (PAT). -->

---

## Obtain the Protection API Access token (PAT)

-   Execute the following curl command to obtain the PAT:

    !!! tip
        -   Be sure to replace the `            <CLIENT_ID>           ` and
            `            <CLIENT_SECRET>           ` tags with the values
            you obtained when you [configured the service provider for the
            resource server](#configure-service-provider-to-act-as-the-resource-server).

>         -   In this tutorial, the grant type that is used to obtain the PAT

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        -   In this guide, the grant type that is used to obtain the PAT
```

            is the password grant type. Therefore, you need to pass the
            resource owners credentials in the curl command. Since [you have
            configured Larry as the resource
            owner](#create-the-resource-owner)

>            , you need to pass Larry's user name and password in the curl

Reviewer: ```suggestion
           , you need to pass Larry's username and password in the curl
```

    the **Publish Policy** page.

7.  Click **Publish**. This displays a message for confirmation to
    publish the policy.
8.  Click **Yes**. This publishes the policy. If you want to view the
    published policy, click **Policy View** under **PDP**. 
     
    ![view-uma-policy](../../assets/img/guides/view-uma-policy.png) 

---

## Obtain a permission ticket

The permission endpoint allows the resource server to request permission
when a client makes a resource request without a token or if the request
contains an invalid token.

!!! tip
    
    By default, the permission ticket is valid for 300 seconds. This time
    period might not be sufficient for you to try out this tutorial and if
    the permission ticket expires you need to obtain a new permission ticket
    in order to proceed
    
    Therefore, to try out the tutorial without having to obtain a new
    permission ticket, you need to follow the step below to change the
    permission ticket expiration validity period:
    
    -   Add the following configuration to the `deployment.toml` file in the `<IS_HOME>/repository/conf` folder and set the value to 3600. 

>     ```toml

Reviewer: Is this code block aligned properly?

Author: yes it is

        tag with the [access token you got in the previous
        section](#obtain-the-protection-api-access-token-pat).
    -   Replace the `             <RESOURCE_ID>            ` tag with
        the ID you got when [registering the
        resource](#register-the-resource).
    
    ```tab="Request Format"
    curl -X POST https://<IS_HOST>:<IS_PORT>/api/identity/oauth2/uma/permission/v1.0/permission -H 'authorization: Bearer <PAT>' -H "Content-Type: application/json" -d '["<PERMISSION_PAYLOAD>"]' -k
    ```
        
    ```tab="Sample Request"
    curl -X POST https://localhost:9443/api/identity/oauth2/uma/permission/v1.0/permission -H 'authorization: Bearer b8df48ff-feab-3632-b3dc-68ae6b4c62e2' -H "Content-Type: application/json" -d '[{"resource_id":"ceaa6506-1da9-456b-88d8-027797d2e081","resource_scopes":["view"]}]' -k
    ```
      
    You will get a response similar to the following:

    ``` java
    {"ticket":"97f476f2-72d0-4540-aa08-a4784bd2053e"}
    ```

---

## Obtain the OIDC id\_token

The client should pass id token to prove its identity to the
authorization server. For the sample scenario in this tutorial only the requesting

> party user name is required.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
party username is required.
```

   "iat":1553414959,
   "client_id":"JfTSiJ24gh8sYHTQVuOl5RoftkAa",
   "username":"Alex.uma.demo"
}
```

If the token introspection for the RPT is successful, the resource
server can share the resource with the client.

This is how UMA works.

!!! note
    
    In order to obtain UMA related information in the introspection end
    point, add the following configuration to the `deployment.toml` file in the `<ISHOME>/repository/conf/` folder .  
    This is disabled by default. The response shown above with additional UMA
    related details is what we get when the following configuration is
    enabled.
    
    ``` java
    [oauth.grant_type.uma_ticket]
    retrieve_uma_permission_info_through_introspection="true"
    ```
    
    Following is a sample response when the above configuration is disabled.
    
    ``` java
    {
      "nbf": 1553411123,
      "active": true,
      "token_type": "Bearer",
      "exp": 1553414723,
      "iat": 1553411123,
      "client_id": "JfTSiJ24gh8sYHTQVuOl5RoftkAa",
      "username": "Alex.uma.demo"
    }
    ```
    

!!! info "Related Topics"
    - [Concept: UMA 2.0](../../../references/concepts/authorization/user-managed-access)

>     - The resource registration endpoint allows you to list registered UMA

Reviewer: We don't need this description here.

## Introduction

To demonstrate the UMA flow using WSO2 IS as the authorization server,
let’s consider a sample scenario where the resource owner wants to

> share a resource on his/her resource server

Reviewer: ```suggestion
share a resource on their resource server
```

with a requesting party. This requesting party uses a

> client to view resource owner's resource. Note that the resource owner wants to

Reviewer: ```suggestion
client to view the resource owner's resource. Note that the resource owner wants to
```

> allow this requesting party to only have view permission to his/her resource.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
allow this requesting party to only have view permission to their resource.
```

For this guide, the following entities will be used to demonstrate the UMA flow:

> - WSO2 Identity Server (authorization server)

Reviewer: Shall we not mention names in the guide?
